So we need to upgrade our
widget to a state full widget.
So we have two kinds of
widget to the flutter,
stateless widget, stateful widget.
In a stateful widget is the one that
can change its own content based
on things that happen within that widget.
Does it makes sense?
If you receive the name as a property,
from the outside,
it's either a stateless widget.
It receives property from the outside.
We are going to have a lot
of examples of that.
But if the wizard itself is changing
its content based on an event or
an external factor,
then it should be an stateful widget.
So instead of extending from a stateless,
we just extend from a stateful.
But there are a couple
of steps to be done.
Unfortunately, we have
a simpler way to do this.
Instead of doing manually, if you put
your cursor over the class declaration
on both Android Studio and Visual Studio,
you get this little hint there.
Or that you can access that with
Alt+Enter in Android Studio,
or command or ctrl., on Visual Studio.
So when you access that,
there is an option to actually
convert it into an a stateful widget.
Okay, do you see that one?
Convert to a stateful widget.
So if I click there, it actually converted
my great widget into an a stateful widget.
And you can see that a stateful widget has
two steps, that it's weird, to be honest.
The first time you see that,
is kind of what's going on here?
So first, you're a stateful widget, now,
it still contains the same key property.
And now, it has an state object
that is of another class,
that by the way,
the classes start with underscore.
Do you remember what underscore means?
Private, so
actually from the outside of this package,
no one can actually use my state directly.
Was the state another class
extending from a state?
And it receives the name
of the widget as a generic.
It feels strange, by the way,
if it's weird for
you to see this happening
here like two classes,
it's just an executive order, okay?
This is how it is,
this is how flutter works.
Okay, there is no other way to do this.
So you need to grade when you have an a
stateful widget, you have two classes.
The widget itself that actually is
going to be plain simple, always.
Most of the time,
your widget will look like this.
And the current rendering happens
actually in the state, okay?
So if I save this, and it try this again,
if it's still not working.
Hey, Max, you lied to us, we graded
a stateful wizard, but nothing happens.
Because there is one more step,
every time you make
a change in the state that
will make a re-render.
First, every time there is the bill
function is being executed.
In this case,
we are initializing a new variable name.
And this is a problem,
because every time we're building,
we're starting from scratch.
So actually,
when I need to move my variable outside,
I make it a property of the class of the
state class, this is my state variable.
So the state variable is one or
more variables that are actually defining
changes in my user interface
in this widget, okay?
So I just move the variable
as a property of the class.
And the other thing that
I need to change is,
I cannot change the variable like this.
I need to do that within
a set state method.
So there is a set state method that
receives a function as an argument,
where you need to put all the changes
that you trigger every render.
I don't need that semicolon.
So we can put this in, if I save, now,
that coma shouldn't be go there and
there is a semicolon, there we are.
You have the code, if you wanna
see it in the companion website.
So actually, how to make changes
in your own user interface?
You grade variables as as
properties of the state class, and
then you change the values of those
variables within a set state call.
If you're coming from react,
from let's say, classic react development.
We did the same thing with
class components in React,
they had the same set state idea.
So we change the state in a setState.
So if I save these now and
try these on the screen, I started typing.
And if you look at that every
time the variable is changing,
the system is re- rendering the widget.
So it's going through
the bill method again, okay?
Make sense?
So we're going to do this a lot
a couple of times anyway,
stateful widget, stateless widget.
It takes time to get used
to this practice, mostly,
if you have never played
with the reactive framework.
Do you have any question on
this little grade impression?
>> No, it's actually,
is there any shortcut to get a state one?
>> So if you wanna create in a state full-
>> State full.
>> From the ground up, it's stful.
So, stful, Enter, it creates both,
and then you start the class.
It creates both the widget class and
the state class, and
it makes everything connected properly.
Okay, so again,
to create a new stateful widget.
If you type stful, Enter, and immediately
the name of the widget that you want,
like person name, whatever.
So in this case,
it's creating the widget, the state and
everything is automatically connected.
You will see that flutter is actually,
the flutter code is large.
So typically,
when you look at flutter code,
you have a lot of lines of source code.
But we are heavily based on
the tool to make that code.
Not every time we are going
to create these manually.
For example,
remember the column that I did?
What if I want now my, let's see,
I want the text to be in a row.
We have column and also, we have row,
row will actually stack
elements in the same row.
Okay, so in the same line, so I need to
add a row and the row has children inside.
But instead of doing that, look at this,
if I put my cursor over the text,
I have this little guy here.
If I click there, I have a lot of options
available on both Android Studio and
ambitious Studio code.
I can wrap this with the row, or
with other things that we
don't know what they are yet.
So if I say wrap with row, it creates
the row with the children property,
the array, I need to put my text
inside with a trailing comma.
So most of the time, we're going
to be using these tools to wrap,
to add widgets, remove widgets and
work with widgets, okay?
So now, you can add another
text here with something else.
Okay, something like that coma, so
now, there is a row there, okay?
And then we have a column with a row and
we can nest this as much as possible.
And why do I have a warning
there on that text?
>> Const.
>> The const, because this is not
changing, it's asking me for a const.
Again, if I don't add the const,
nothing will happen, but
the compiler thinks that it will be
more efficient unless a buggy, okay?
To define that as a const, because I
know the content is not changing, okay?
Make sense?
So we have a stateless widget and
we have a stateful widget.
On every situation you pick the one
that you prefer or you need.
And anyway, if you pick the wrong one,
it's easy to move to the other one.
It's just changing the superclass and
adding or
removing that auxiliary class that
we are adding the state class.